## Exam 2015

### Question 1

Classify each statement as true or false, and justify.

#### Item 1.1

UDP is more appropriate than TCP for any multimedia application.

**False.** TCP is more appropriate for multimedia applications that require an underlying reliable communication media, which handles lost/duplicate/out-of-order packets. Even if the application does not require reliable transmission, if it can live with TCP (i.e., if the fact it uses TCP does not impact performance significantly for the intended functionality) then TCP should be used. Otherwise, the application should use UDP.

UDP is most often used in contexts that are very sensitive to delays and where error recovery is not paramount (e.g., live streaming or VoIP). It is also used in delay-sensitive contexts that require error recovery but do not require the whole suite of guarantees that TCP gives; in this case, a simple error recovery protocol is often implemented on top of UDP to provide some degree of error recovery but avoid some parts of the TCP protocol which significantly increase overhead.

#### Item 1.2

Epidemic algorithms for broadcast can be easily modified to support multicast in an efficient way.

**True.** It is only required that nodes keep lists of other nodes that belong to the same multicast group, instead of maintaining lists of other nodes that belong to the network (the broadcast group).

#### Item 1.3

An RPC (remote procedure call) library that supports the *at-most-once* semantic cannot be used in client-server applications with idempotent operations.

**False.** Any semantic can be used in client-server applications with idempotent operations, as the main concern with operations is that they might have unwanted effects if called more than once as a result of message duplication. However, given the operations are idempotent, the best semantic would be *at-least-once*, because it would guarantee the operation was run at least once, and even if it runs more than once the operations are idempotent so there are no effects to calling it several times; plus, it does not provide guarantees as strong as those of a *exactly-once* semantic, whose complexity is not required either way because operations are idempotent.

#### Item 1.4

A concurrent server has to be necessarily implemented using multiples processes or multiple threads.

**False.** It can be implemented with events and hardware interrupts, which allow even a single process with a single-thread to have concurrency because several tasks are being handled by hardware (for instance, reading from disk) and the hardware will generate interrupts when these tasks (that are being run by the disk controller, not by the CPU) are finished.

#### Item 1.5

Starting with version 1.1 of HTTP (which supports TCP connection reuse), the usage of cookies as *transport-layer independent handles* in web services is no longer justified, except by the desire of tracking its users' accesses.

**False.** Connection reuse is in fact supported and used as default in HTTP1.1, but often servers only keep the TCP connection alive for 5-15s; this allows all resources of the same page to be loaded through the same connection to reduce time spent handshaking, and the connection is closed as soon as possible so as to exhaust as little server resources as possible. This means session data still has to be stored in some other way; that is one of the reasons PHP did not stop using its session cookie when HTTP1.1 was launched.

#### Item 1.6

Leases with relative expiration times can be easily implemented in asynchronous systems.

**True.** As long as clock drift is not significant or the lease is not too long, leases with relative expiration times can be reliably implemented. Clock drift is not significant nowadays (below $10^{-6}$ for most quartz clocks used in regular computers), and leases are usually not too long (expected to last for a few seconds). Since relative expiration times only rely on clocks with synchronized rates (which they are, as quartz clocks have minute drifts), it can be reliably and easily implemented in asynchronous systems.

#### Item 1.7

Let $e_1$ and $e_2$ be two events, and $LS(e)$ and $VS(e)$ be the *Lamport timestamp* and *vector timestamp* of event $e$, respectively. Then, $LS(e_1) < LS(e_2) \implies VS(e_1) < VS(e_2)$.

**False.** $VS(e_1) < VS(e_2) \implies e_1 \rightarrow e_2$. Thus, $LS(e_1) < LS(e_2) \implies VS(e_1) < VS(e_2) \implies e_1 \rightarrow e_2$, but we know that $LS(e_1) < LS(e_2) \;\not\!\!\!\implies e \rightarrow e'$, thus arriving at a contradiction.

#### Item 1.8

Any distributed algorithm of mutual exclusion can replace a distributed algorithm of leader election.

**False.** A mutual exclusion algorithm uses a lock and assumes the process that holds the lock never fails in the critical section; if it does fail in the critical exception, it might never unlock said lock, and keep the lock forever, causing other processes waiting for the lock to block forever. Thus, if the critical section fails, a leader election algorithm must be used (this corresponds to most times, as a process might suffer from failure even if it is nothing related to it and the rest of the distributed system is required to keep working properly).

#### Item 1.9

In the *two-phase commit* protocol, the failure of any participant may delay decision making until that participant recovers.

**False.** Decisions are only delayed when the coordinator fails, because participants block waiting for a `COMMIT`/`ABORT` decision from the coordinator. If a generic participant other than the coordinator fails, the coordinator usually unblocks because a certain timeout was reached, and decides to `ABORT` the commit without further delay.

#### Item 1.10

View synchronous communication guarantees only that all communicating processes agree in respect to the participants in the view.
