## Exam 2017

### Question 1

In a distributed system, which of the following is false?

1. There may be partial failures.
2. At any time, a process can use only information locally available.
3. There is no single physical clock.
4. A process may know the current global state. :heavy_check_mark:

---

It is impossible for a process to know the global state of the system in an instantaneous (or even near-instantaneous at the CPU time scale) way, because message transmission is not instantaneous. Thus, to know the global state the process $p$ needs to exchange messages, and the state of another process $q$ can change in the time interval between it sending the message and $p$ receiving it, so the information $p$ receives is already outdated by the actual state of $q$.

### Question 2

In event-based concurrency, which of the following is false?

1. The programmer needs to manage the state explicitly, rather than relying on the stack.
2. The structure of the code is very similar to that of the iterative server. :heavy_check_mark:
3. The programmer needs to break processing according to potentially blocking calls.

---

The structure of the code is very different from that of the iterative server; in the iterative server, calls are logically chained, whereas in event-based concurrency each call is wrapped in a state, and states perform transitions to each other, but they are not explicitly ordered in any way (it is the transitions that impose an "order" for them to be executed).

### Question 3

What are cryptographic hash functions **not** used for?

1. None.
2. Integrity.
3. Authenticity.
4. Confidentiality. :heavy_check_mark:

---

Hashes are used for integrity, as they can be used as checksums. They are also used for authenticity, in the form of a message authentication code (MAC).

### Question 4

Consider Lamport-timestamps and vector-timestamps. Which of the following statements is true?

1. No two events in an execution have the same vector-timestamp. :heavy_check_mark:
2. Lamport-timestamps establish a total order among events in an execution.
3. No two events in an execution can have the same Lamport-timestamp.
4. Vector-timestamps establish a total order among events in an execution.

---

**Theorem 1:** *For each process $i$, the timestamp it has of itself is greater than or equal to the timestamp all other processors $j$ have of $i$ ($\forall i, j, i\neq j \implies V_i[i]\geq V_j[i]$).*  
**Proof:** This derives from the fact the only process that increases process $i$'s timestamp is itself, as all other processes $j$ merely update $V_j[i]$ based on the timestamps of incoming messages, and these incoming messages must have come from a process that has exactly those timestamps. When an event happens in process $i$, it increments its own timestamp, so it is the only process increasing its own timestamp beyond the maximum known value known on the rest of the network.

**Corollary:** every time a process processes an event, it will increment its timestamp so that no other process in the network will have such a high value for that timestamp (i.e., immediately after process $i$ processes an event, $\forall i, j, i \neq j \implies V_i[i] > V_j[i]$).

This means it is impossible for any two vector-timestamps to be equal.
